== README FOR BETA 0.0.1 	

== [THE FIRST HALF OF THIS GUIDE IS JUST GETTING THE DB TO CONFORM TO RAILS STANDARDS]
== [THIS WILL NOT BE NEEDED TO BE DONE IN LATER IMPLEMENTATIONS OF THE APP]
== [ITS BETA FOR GODSAKE GIVE ME A BREAK - Richard Stallman]


==*OPEN THIS FILE IN A TEXT EDITOR OR ELSE THE FORMATTING IS FUCKED

**Firstly, this guide is geared towards a linux environment.  Chuck, I'm sorry.**

Secondly, make sure you have installed the latest version of Ruby on Rails through the gem installer or your favorite package
manager. gems/pacgem/etc will probably have you install like 50 dependencies -- just follow along and let it do its thing.

Once that is operating verify that you are up to speed:
	
	$ rails --version

	*This should say 4.2.1 as of March 22, 2015

Now, refer to the initial inserts & create tables scripts located in the /scripts/ folder and launch your 
mysql database from console (if it doesn't start on boot).

	$ sudo systemctrl start mysqld.service

*If you have setup user accounts, other than root, for your mysql db (which is advised but I haven't in this implementation) 
*you will need to edit the database.yml file located in /config/ to conform to your login credentials. You may also need to 
*edit your db socket. 

	development:
  	adapter: mysql
  	database: reference_project
  	username: root
  	password:
  	socket: /run/mysqld/mysqld.sock

Once the database.yml file is setup for your machine, launch a mysql shell

	$ mysql -u username -p if_using_password *if using password
	$ mysql -u root *if setup like above

(your credentials will be different most likely)

Create a db that the project will reference. For everyones benefit lets call it reference_project (as in above).

	mysql> create database reference_project;

Switch to that database.

	mysql> use reference_project;

Populate the database with tables from project folder (this is very important, make sure the case matches exactly).

	mysql> source ~/teamginger/scripts/createTables.sql;

Populate the database with inserts from project folder (this is very important, make sure the case matches exactly).

	mysql> source ~/teamginger/scripts/insert.sql;

Now that the database is properly populated we can launch the webserver and the site should good to go.

Navigate to the beta 0.0.1 project directory.

	$ cd ~/teamginger/beta0.0.1/

Launch the WEBrick Server.

	$ rails server

**The command below may be useful for displaying the demo to Dr. Narayan or for the final presentation. Something we can discuss
 later if we do not plan on actually hosting this in public webspace.**
You can also specify the socket which will serve this webpage, if you prefer ie: which ip and port to serve the application on:

	$ rails server -b your_network_ip_here -p 3000

Okay! Now we can pop open a webrower and direct ourselves to localhost:3000 (if you used the first command) or 
your_network_ip_here:3000 (if you used the second command).

I hope it works. 

-Branch 
	




